docs/source/references/glossary.rst, before:

Glossary
========

This page includes a number of terms that we use in our documentation.

.. glossary::

   RCIC
     The Research Cyberinfrastructure Center (RCIC) at the University of California, Irvine 

   HPC
     High Performance Computing

   HTC
     HIgh Throughput Computing

   HPC3
     is a scalable cluster-based computing infrastructure provided by RCIC.
     It is one of UCI’s shared-computing cluster that expands upon the condo-style model
     of GreenPlanet and the now-retired HPC clusters

   RCIC website 
     https://rcic.uci.edu

   CRSP
     CRSP is a network-based multi-Petabyte storage cluster for the UCI campus research community.
     It is being put in place so that researchers across UCI have a reliable and resilient
     location to store their research data and share with defined groups.

   DFS
     BeeGFS is a network-based multi-Petabyte storage cluster for the UCI campus research community.
     It is being put in place so that researchers across UCI have a reliable and resilient location
     to store their research data and share with defined groups.

   CrashPlan
     CrashPlan is a secure, data backup service for UCI Researchers. Install CrashPlan on 
     your laptop/desktop to continuously protect your most important data when and where
     it is being created without impacting your workflow.
     Please see https://www.oit.uci.edu/services/research/crashplan/ for details.

   UNIX
     is a multi-user operating system which allows more than one person to use the computer 
     resources at a time. See `definition of UNIX <https://www.techtarget.com/searchdatacenter/definition/Unix>`_
  
   SUs
     Service Units are core-hours. All allocations are service units with cores being charged:

     * 1 SU/core-hour for CPU (most users only work with CPU cores).
     * 32 SUs/core-hour for GPU.

   RFP
    A formal Request For Proposal  process.

Commit message:

add ssh, rfp, slurm, motd

docs/source/references/glossary.rst, after:

Glossary
========

This page includes a number of terms that we use in our documentation.

.. glossary::

   RCIC
     The Research Cyberinfrastructure Center (RCIC) at the University of California, Irvine 

   HPC
     High Performance Computing

   HTC
     HIgh Throughput Computing

   HPC3
     is a scalable cluster-based computing infrastructure provided by RCIC.
     It is one of UCI’s shared-computing cluster that expands upon the condo-style model
     of GreenPlanet and the now-retired HPC clusters

   RCIC website 
     https://rcic.uci.edu

   CRSP
     CRSP is a network-based multi-Petabyte storage cluster for the UCI campus research community.
     It is being put in place so that researchers across UCI have a reliable and resilient
     location to store their research data and share with defined groups.

   DFS
     BeeGFS is a network-based multi-Petabyte storage cluster for the UCI campus research community.
     It is being put in place so that researchers across UCI have a reliable and resilient location
     to store their research data and share with defined groups.

   CrashPlan
     CrashPlan is a secure, data backup service for UCI Researchers. Install CrashPlan on 
     your laptop/desktop to continuously protect your most important data when and where
     it is being created without impacting your workflow.
     Please see https://www.oit.uci.edu/services/research/crashplan/ for details.

   UNIX
     is a multi-user operating system which allows more than one person to use the computer 
     resources at a time. See `definition of UNIX <https://www.techtarget.com/searchdatacenter/definition/Unix>`_
  
   SUs
     Service Units are core-hours. All allocations are service units with cores being charged:

     * 1 SU/core-hour for CPU (most users only work with CPU cores).
     * 32 SUs/core-hour for GPU.

   RFP
     A formal Request For Proposal  process.

   SSH
     Secure Shell PRotocol http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secure_Shell

   motd
     message of the day. See ``man motd`` for a definition.
     We use this facility to show important messages to all users who login
     on the clsuter.

   Slurm
     Slurm is an open-source workload manager, please see the official
	 documentation  https://slurm.schedmd.com/slurm.html
