
.. _news 2019:

2019 
=====

May 30
------

:blogtitle:`CRSP HAProxy load balancer maintenance on June 11, 2019`

:blogauthor:`2019-05-30 by Imam Toufique`

CRSP HaProxy servers will undergo maintenance on June 11th 2019, between 7AM PST - 8AM PST.
There is no planned user service interruption during this time. However, if access to CRSP
is disrupted due to any unforeseen issues, service will be restored as soon as possible.

Thank you for your patience!

May 15
------

:blogtitle:`Campus Research Storage (CRSP) Enters Full Production`

:blogauthor:`2019-05-15 by Philip Papadopoulos`

The :ref:`crsp` has entered full production.
Approximately 1200 faculty and researcher accounts have been created and are active.
Each faculty/researcher is allocated 1TB of highly-reliable, no-cost storage to
utilize for research purposes. Additional space can be purchased.

CRSP storage can be accessed from a standard web browser, a site-licensed
client for Windows/Mac desktops, **sshfs** for Linux, and as a directly-mounted file
system on the HPC Cluster.

.. _symposium 2019:

Symposium Apr 04
----------------

:blogtitle:`RCI Symposium at Calit2 04/04/2019`

**Purpose of the Symposium**

The Research Cyberinfrastructure Center was formed because of a 
`faculty-driven process <https://sites.uci.edu/rci/>`_ and the recognition
that computing and data are key to modern research enterprise.  In 2016,
a symposium was held to gather input and ideas from the UCI research community.

Three years later, it's time to gather again and talk about RCI @ UCI.
There has been some key progress and part of the
symposium is to introduce some of the emerging capabilities to the research
community.  There will also be a panel session for group discussion and 
a poster session during lunch so that the UCI research community 
can see what kinds of projects are utilizing Cyberinfrastructure.

Please come join us and learn about the Campus Research Storage Pool (CRSP) and
the next-generation of HPC, HPC3.

Come join us and tell what kinds of Research Cyberinfrastructure you 
would like to see at UCI emerge over the next few years.

**Proposed Agenda**

.. table::
   :class: noscroll-table

   +-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | Time        |  Topic                                                                |
   +=============+=======================================================================+
   | 11:00-11:15 | Welcome and Introduction to RCIC,                                     |
   |             |                                                                       |
   |             | *Filipp Furche, Philip Papadopoulos*                                  |
   +-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | 11:15-12:00 | Research Storage and the Campus Research Storage Pool :ref:`crsp`,    |
   |             |                                                                       |
   |             | *Imam Toufique, Philip Papadopoulos_*                                 |
   +-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | 12:15-01:00 | Box lunch                                                             |
   +-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | 01:00-01:45 | :ref:`hpc3` Motivation, Procurement, Emerging Policy,                 |
   |             |                                                                       |
   |             | *Filipp Furche, Aparna Chandramowlishwaran, Philip Papadopoulos*      |
   +-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | 01:45-02:30 | Panel Discussion: What do you see as the largest Research Cyber*      | 
   |             |                                                                       |
   |             | *challenges over the next 3-5 years? *Ali Mortizavi, Panel Moderator* |
   +-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+

Mar 21
------

:blogtitle:`RCI Symposium to be held at Calit2 04/04/2019`

:blogauthor:`2019-03-21 by Philip Papadopoulos`

The RCI :ref:`symposium 2019`  has been scheduled as forum for the UCI 
community to shape Research Cyberinfrastructure. 

Filipp Furche, chair of the :ref:`advisory` sent an all campus invitation to the symposium.

Lunch will be provided for registered participants.

Jan 25
------

:blogtitle:`CRSP Hardware Delivered`

:blogauthor:`2019-01-25 by Philip Papadopoulos`

Campus resource storage cluster :ref:`crsp` has been physically delivered to
UCI.  RCIC is currently working on configuration and acceptance testing.

We expect friendly users to have access near mid February.

Jan 24
------

:blogtitle:`HPC3 Request for Proposals Sent to Vendors`

:blogauthor:`2019-01-24 by Philip Papadopoulos`

Using standard UCI Procurement processes, the formal RFP for HPC3 has 
been made public to vendors.  Responses are expected February 1, 2019.

The RFP is requesting bids for two sub-clusters that will be interconnected 
via Infiniband and 10 Gigabit Ethernet:

- 12-node, 4 NVidia V100 GPUs per node, minimum of 32 cores/node
- 36-node, CPU cluster, minimum of 32 cores/node
