.. _beginner guide:

Beginner guide
===============

This is a step by step beginner guide that explains how to get an account, to login,
and to do a few simple things on HPC3 cluster.

.. _your laptop:

Your Laptop
-----------

You will need to have a  few applications on your laptop, most are standard:

.. _laptop apps:

.. table:: Your laptop applications
   :class: noscroll-table

   +-----------------+-------------+-------------+---------------+---------------------------+
   | **Application** |  Your laptop model                                                    |
   |                 +-------------+-------------+---------------+---------------------------+
   | **Type**        | **Linux**   | **MacOS**   | **Windows**   | **Windows 10**            |
   +=================+=============+=============+===============+===========================+
   |  VPN access     | Install client VPN software per the instructions |ucivpn|_            |
   +-----------------+-------------+-------------+---------------+---------------------------+
   |  Terminal       | use your    | Terminal or | |putty|_ or   | Windows Terminal,         |
   |                 | favorite    | |iTerm2|_   | |mobaXterm|_  | |linsub|_ or |mobaXterm|_ |
   +-----------------+-------------+-------------+---------------+---------------------------+
   |  Secure Connect | ssh         |  ssh        |               | ssh                       |
   +-----------------+-------------+-------------+---------------+---------------------------+
   |  Secure Data    | scp         | scp         | Filezilla or  | scp  or                   |
   |  Transfer       | or rsync    | or rsync    | WinSCP        | rsync (in |linsub|_)      |
   +-----------------+-------------+-------------+---------------+---------------------------+

.. attention::

   :red:`MobaXterm users DO NOT enable Remote monitoring!`
   See :ref:`mobaxterm monitoring` for more info.

Get an account
--------------

Anyone with a valid **UCINetID** can have an account. Please see :ref:`get account`.
Once you have an account you can login to HPC3 cluster.

HPC3 is a shared facility. Please read :ref:`acceptable use` guide.

Logging in
----------

The full name of the :tt:`HPC3` cluster is **hpc3.rcic.uci.edu**
and this is the name that should  be used in all connections.

We will require multi-factor authentication for all password-based logins.
Please make sure you have enabled your DUO device using
`UCI’s Duo infrastructure <https://www.oit.uci.edu/services/accounts-passwords/duo/>`_

To directly login on :tt:`HPC3` cluster you must:

| be connected to the UCI campus VPN (or be on the campus network)
| use ``ssh`` command from your **Terminal** application
| have a way to use DUO authentication

**Step 1**
  Connect to UCI campus VPN, see |ucivpn|_ instructions

**Step 2**
  Open your Terminal application on your laptop.

**Step 3**
  In your Terminal application start ssh session and use your
  your regular UCI credentials (UCINetID and password) to connect to the
  cluster login node.

  For example, a user with UCINetID *panteater* will use the ssh command
  specifying login name and a cluster name:

  .. code-block:: console

     $ ssh panteater@hpc3.rcic.uci.edu

  When prompted for a password a user will  enter UCNetID password followed by :guilabel:`Return` key.
  Note, password will not be visible when typed:

  .. code-block:: console

	 Password:

  After that user is prompted to enter a code (backup or generated by your DUO device)
  or request a push to your enrolled DUO-enabled device. A prompt looks similar to:

  .. code-block:: text

     Duo two-factor login for panteater

     Enter a passcode or select one of the following options:

      1. Duo Push to XXX-XXX-1234

     Passcode or option (1-1):

  Type desired option (in this example *1*).

  .. code-block:: text

     Passcode or option (1-1): 1

  Now use the DUO app on your phone and respond to the received DUO
  notification. Press :guilabel:`Approve` on your DUO app when prompted.
  If the DUO authentication is successful you will see on your laptop:

  .. code-block:: text

     Success. Logging you in...


  And after a successful login you will see a screen similar to the following:

  .. code-block:: text

     +-----------------------------------------+
     |  _             _             _ _ ____   |
     | | | ___   __ _(_)_ __       (_) | ___|  |
     | | |/ _ \ / _` | | '_ \ _____| | |___ \  |
     | | | (_) | (_| | | | | |_____| | |___) | |
     | |_|\___/ \__, |_|_| |_|     |_|_|____/  |
     |          |___/                          |
     +-----------------------------------------+
      Distro:  Rocky 8.7 Green Obsidian
      Virtual: NO

      CPUs:    40
      RAM:     191.8GB
      BUILT:   2022-08-30 14:02

      ACCEPTABLE USE: https://rcic.uci.edu/documents/RCIC-Acceptable-Use-Policy.pdf

     [anteater@login-x:~]$


  The above text output screen  is called :term:`motd`. It
  includes a general information about the cluster login node (we have a few) plus important
  messages about the cluster such as pending shutdowns.

  The last line of the output |prompt| is your *shell prompt*,
  this is where you can type commands.

Simple commands
---------------

Users who are unfamiliar with Linux environment will need to learn
the basics of **Bash shell**, file editing, or using language such as R or Python.
Please see the :ref:`tutorials` page that lists links to various beginner tutorials.

The cluster shell :tt:`bash`, which is a command language interpreter that executes
commands read from the standard input (what you type).
Prompt |prompt| is automatically provided by the bash shell, you don't need to type it.

Below is a small set of simple but very useful commands to try. What you type
is immediately after the prompt |prompt|.
Each command returns an output that will be displayed in your terminal window
and will be similar to the following:

.. code-block:: console

   [user@login-x:~]$ pwd
   /data/homezvol0/panteater

   [user@login-x:~]$ date
   Mon May 19 12:43:42 PDT 2023

   [user@login-x:~]$ hostname
   login-i15

   [user@login-x:~]$ ls
   perl5

   [user@login-x:~]$ ls -l
   drwx------   3 panteater panteater    9 Jul 13 00:02 .
   drwxr-xr-x 785 root      root       785 Jul 16 10:32 ..
   -rw-r--r--   1 panteater panteater  183 Jul 12 14:42 .bash_profile
   -rw-r--r--   1 panteater panteater  541 Jul 12 14:42 .bashrc
   -rw-r--r--   1 panteater panteater  500 Jul 12 14:42 .emacs
   -rw-r--r--   1 panteater panteater   17 Jul 12 14:42 .forward
   -rw-------   1 panteater root      1273 Jul 13 00:02 .hpc-selective-backup
   -rw-------   1 panteater root         0 Jul 13 00:02 .hpc-selective-backup-exclude
   drwxrwxr-x   2 panteater panteater    2 Jun 15 09:48 perl5

| ``pwd``  command prints name of current/working directory
| ``date`` command prints current date and time in default format
| ``hostname`` command prints current host name. The cluster has  a few login nodes
    and multiple working nodes, each has its own unique name.
| ``ls`` command prints directory contents, here current directory.
| ``ls -l`` with an optional flag ``-l`` lists all contents including
  hidden files that start with dot :tt:`.` and info about each file.

By default, many commands need no arguments or additional flags, just like
most of the examples above. Arguments given to the commands provide more
specific information in the output, as the last command above did.

To learn about specific commands consult tutorials or use manual pages via ``man``
command. For example to learn more about ``ls`` command type:

.. code-block:: console

   [user@login-x:~]$ man ls

Use the :guilabel:`space` key to scroll through the output on the screen.

GUI
---

The cluster environment **is not well suited for GUI type of applications**.
Most of the commands users need to type in, there are no 'clickable' icons and
no pop-up windows.

File editing
------------

Users will need to learn one of file editors: ``vim`` or ``emacs``.
Choose the editor that is more intuitive for you.
See the :ref:`editors` beginner tutorials, many more are available online.

.. important:: Please avoid using :ref:`special characters` in file and directory names.

Running applications
--------------------

Cluster is a shared resource, at any given time there can be many users
and hundreds of jobs running. What you do can adversely affect others.

.. important:: Please follow :ref:`conduct rules` to avoid problems.

We use Slurm scheduler to run CPU intensive or long running applications.
In depth :ref:`Slurm guide<slurm manager>` provides extensive info about using the scheduler.
This page shows a short summary.

Slurm is an open-source workload manager for Linux clusters and provides:

HPC3 has different kinds of nodes (servers) that are separated into groups according to
their resources (memory, cpu, etc).
Slurm uses the term :tt:`partition` to signify a queue of resources and jobs
are submitted to :tt:`partitions`.

We have a few partitions, most users will need to use just the:

* **standard** partition is for jobs that should not be interrupted.
  Usage is charged against the user's Slurm bank account.
  Each user gets FREE one time allocation of 1000 core hours to run jobs here.
  **Users are NOT CHARGED FOR IT**.

  If all allocation is used, users can run jobs in this partition only if they are associated with
  labs that have core hours in their lab banks. Usually, lab bank is a PI lab account.

* **free** partition is for jobs that can be preempted (killed) by standard
  jobs. Users can run jobs in this partition even if they have only 1
  core-hour left. There are no charges for using this partition.

Using  interactive job
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To request an interactive job, use the ``srun`` command.
Suppose you are enabled to charge to the :tt:`panteater_lab` account then,
to start an interactive session you can use one of 3 methods :

.. code-block:: console

   [user@login-x:~]$ srun --pty /bin/bash -i                   # 1
   [user@login-x:~]$ srun -p free --pty /bin/bash -i           # 2
   [user@login-x:~]$ srun -A panteater_lab --pty /bin/bash -i  # 3

Above 3 commands mean your jobs will be put on an available node:

1. in standard partition using your default Slurm bank account
2. in free partition using your default Slurm bank account
3. in standard partition using panteater_lab account

Once you execute the command, you will be put by Slurm on a compute node
and will see a new shell prompt in the terminal, for example:
:tt:`[panteater@hpc3-l18-04:~]$`

Now you can run your applications and commands from the command line.

After you are done logout from interactive node:

.. code-block:: console

   [user@hpc3-l18-04:~]$ logout

This will end your Slurm interactive session and you will return to the
terminal window on the login node.

Using batch job
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Slurm batch jobs can be submitted to the same queues as interactive jobs.

A batch job is run by the scheduler at sometime in the future and the
scheduler picks an available time and node. Usually, it is within minutes,
or as soon as requested resources become available. Slurm balances resource usage among
many users and many jobs.

A user needs to use ``sbatch`` command and a submit script.

| Slurm submit script is a text file that specifies
|   the directives to Slurm what resources are needed for the job
|   commands that the jobs needs to execute

In the steps below you will download an example Slurm script,  python example
script, submit slurm script to the scheduler and check the job output file.

All commands are executed on the cluster and all files are downloaded from
the web server to the filesystem that is allocated to you on the cluster.
The Slurm script and python script don't need editing after the download and
can be used *as is*.

**Step: download an example batch script**
  Type all 4 commands exactly as they are shown.

  .. code-block:: console

     [user@login-x:~]$ cd /pub/$USER
     [user@login-x:~]$ wget https://rcic.uci.edu/_static/examples/firstjob.sub
     [user@login-x:~]$ wget https://rcic.uci.edu/_static/examples/days.py
     [user@login-x:~]$ cat firstjob.sub

  The commands are:

  1. ``cd`` - to go to your DFS allocation area, here :`tt:`$USER` is a shortcut for your UCNetID.
  2. ``wget`` - to download the example Slurm submit script and save it as :tt:`firstjob.sub` file
  3. ``wget`` - to download the example python script and save it as :tt:`days.py` file. It is a
     simple python program that prints today's date and a random day 1-365 days in the past.
  4. ``cat`` - to show the content of the Slurm script in the Terminal window.

**Step: submit job to Slurm scheduler**
  .. code-block:: console

     [user@login-x:~]$ sbatch firstjob.sub
     Submitted batch job 5776081

  The output shows that script was submitted as a job with ID 5776081.
  All job IDs are unique, yours will be different and the output file name of
  your job will reflect a different ID.

**Step: Check the job status and output file**
  This test job will run very quickly (fraction of a second) because it
  executes a few very fast commands and has no computational component.

  .. code-block:: console

     [user@login-x:~]$ squeue -u $USER
     JOBID   PARTITION   NAME  USER  ACCOUNT ST   TIME  CPUS NODE NODELIST(REASON)

     [user@login-x:~]$ ls
     firstjob.5776081.err  firstjob.5776081.out  firstjob.sub

     [user@login-x:~]$ cat firstjob.5776081.out
     Running job on host hpc3-l18-05
     Today is 2021-07-23 and 325 days ago it was 2020-09-01

  The commands are:

  1. ``squeue`` - to check the status of your job.
     When the output shows a single line as shown, the job is finished, otherwise
     there will be info about your job in the output.
  2. ``ls`` - to list the files in the current directory. There will be 2 additional files listed.
     These are error/output files produced by the Slurm job as was requested in the submit script.
  3. ``cat`` - to show the contents of the output file in the Terminal window. Here the
     text shows the output of the commands that were submitted with the :tt:`firstjob.sub` submit script.

Storage
-------

The filesystem storage is generally in 3 areas.
Please see the links below for detailed information about each filesystem.

:ref:`home`:
  All users have 50GB quota :tt:`$HOME` area.
  The :tt:`$HOME` is in :tt:`/data/homezvolX/ucinetid`.
  Use it for storing important and rarely changed files.

:ref:`dfs`:
  All users have 1Tb quota :tt:`/pub/ucinetid` area.
  Use it for storing data sets, documents, Slurm scripts and jobs input/output.

  Depending on a lab affiliation, some users may have space in
  additional DFS areas (:tt:`/dfs2`, :tt:`/dfs3a`, etc).

:ref:`crsp`
  The CRSP is available in :tt:`/share/crsp`. By default users don't have
  access to this area.

  Depending on a lab affiliation, some users may have space in
  :tt:`/share/crsp/lab/labname/ucinetid`.

Check quotas on regular basis after adding or removing a lot of files, transferring data
or running computational jobs that create a lot of files:

|   :ref:`home check quotas` :tt:`$HOME` quotas.
|   :ref:`dfs check quotas` DFS quotas.

Transferring files
------------------

Often users need to brings data from other servers and laptops.
To transfer data one needs to use ``scp`` (secure copy) or ``rsync`` (file copying tool).
Please see detailed :ref:`data transfer` examples.

Alternatively, one can use graphical tools on their laptops (Filezilla, MountainDuck, or WinSCP)
to transfer files between a local laptop and the cluster.
Please follow  each program instructions how to do this.

In all of the transfer application you will need to use :tt:`hpc3.rcic.uci.edu`
as a remote server (where you want to transfer your files to/from) and use
your UCNetID credentials for your user name and password.

**Simple examples of file transfers with scp:**
  The ``scp`` command is used to transfer files and directories  between a local
  laptop and a remote server. The command has a simple structure:

  .. code-block::

     scp OPTIONS SOURCE DESTINATION

  We omit OPTIONS for thie simple cases.

  The SOURCE and DESTINATION may be specified as a local file name, or
  a remote host with optional path in the form :tt:`user@server:path`.

  :tt:`user`
    your account on a cluster
  :tt:`@server:`
    is the server name delimited with 2 special characters, :tt:`@`
    separates user name from server name, and :tt:`:` separates server name from path name
  :tt:`path`
    is a file path on the server

File path names can be made explicit using absolute or relative names. For
example :tt:`/Users/someuser/project1/input/my.fasta` is an absolute  or full name,
and the same file can be referred to as :tt:`my.fasta`  which is a relative
file name when used from the directory where this file is located.

Examples below use UCnetID :tt:`panteater`, you need to use your UCnetID credentials
(username and password).

1. To transfer a single file :tt:`myfile.txt` from your laptop to HPC3 and put
   it in the directory :tt:`/pub/panteater`:

   On your laptop, use a Terminal app and descend into the directory where your file is
   located, then execute the ``scp`` command (use your UCnetID):

   .. code-block:: console

      scp myfile.txt panteater@hpc3.rcic.uci.edu:/pub/panteater/myfile.txt

2. To transfer a single file :tt:`j-123.fa` from HPC3 to your laptop

   On your laptop, use a Terminal app and descend into the directory where you
   want to transfer the file to, then execute the ``scp`` command (use your UCnetID):

   .. code-block:: console

      scp panteater@hpc3.rcic.uci.edu:/pub/panteater/project1/j-123.fa j-123.fa

3. To transfer multiple files from your laptop to HPC3:

   .. code-block:: console

      scp f1.py f2.py doc.txt panteater@hpc3.rcic.uci.edu:/pub/panteater

4. To transfer the :tt:`/pub/panteater/results/` directory  and all its
   contents from HPC3 to your laptop
   into the directory where the command is executed
   top-level directory with its contents locally on your laptop. Note the
   :tt:`.` (a single dot character ) at the end means *copy to this current directory*.

   .. code-block:: console

      scp -r panteater@hpc3.rcic.uci.edu:/pub/panteater/results .

Logout
------

You can run many commands and submit many jobs.
After you are done with your work you need to logout from the cluster:

.. code-block:: console

   [user@login-x:~]$ logout


.. |iterm2| replace:: iTerm2
.. _`iTerm2`: http://www.iterm2.com

.. |putty| replace:: PuTTY
.. _`putty`: http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty

.. |mobaXterm| replace:: MobaXterm
.. _`mobaXterm`: https://mobaxterm.mobatek.net

.. |linsub| replace:: Linux Subsystem for Windows
.. _`linsub`: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10

.. |ucivpn| replace:: UCI campus VPN
.. _`ucivpn`: https://www.oit.uci.edu/help/vpn

.. |prompt| replace:: :navy:`[user@login-x:~]$`
