docs/source/account/getting-account.rst, before:

.. _get account:

Getting an account
==================

| Anyone with a valid UCINetID can have an account.
| There is no cost for a user to obtain an account on HPC3 cluster.

1. Please send email to hpc-support@uci.edu and provide

   * **your name**
   * your **UCINetID**
   * Optionally, if you are affiliated with a PI lab and want to use PI lab resources
     specify what resources you are requesting and cc your email to your PI.
     We will need a confirmation from your PI to add you to the lab resources
     access and cc keeps everything on the same ticket for simplicity.

#. The email opens a ticket in our ticketing system.
   Once your account is created you will be notified by email.

#. After you get a confirmation email about your account being created please review:

   * :ref:`acceptable use`
   * :ref:`login`

.. attention::

   | :bluelight:`Your account` is your **UCINetID**
   | :bluelight:`Your password` is **your regular password** that you use for your UCINetID
   | :red:`We do not handle or reset passwords for UCINetID`

.. _closing account:

Closing an account
==================

For as long as you have a valid UCInetID and you use your account it remains active.
When you separate from UCI your UCInetID will become inactive some time after
the separation.

The accounts are closed when:

1. An account has no activity for 1 year.
2. Once your UCInetID loses student status.
   Most student alumni keep student status for up to 1 year after the graduation.
3. When your UCInetID loses staff/researcher/PI affiliation.

Commit message:

add explicit links for how to request access to pi resources

docs/source/account/getting-account.rst, after:

.. _get account:

Getting an account
==================

| Anyone with a **valid UCINetID** can have an account.
| There is no cost for a user to obtain an account on HPC3 cluster.

1. Please send email (from your UCINetID email) to hpc-support@uci.edu and provide:

   * Your name
   * Your UCINetID
   * Optionally, *if you are affiliated with a PI lab and want to use PI lab resources*

     You need to check with your PI what resources are available to the group
     (some PIs don't have all resources) and need to specify what resources you are requesting:

     | :ref:`How to be added to PI group Slurm account <add lab account>`
     | :ref:`How to be added to PI group DFS access <add lab dfs>`
     | :ref:`How to be added to PI group CRSP access <getting crsp account>`

     **You must cc** your email to your PI.
     We will need a confirmation from your PI to add you to the lab resources
     access and cc keeps everything on the same ticket for simplicity.


#. The email opens a ticket in our ticketing system.
   Once your account is created you will be notified by email.

#. After you get a confirmation email about your account being created please review:

   * :ref:`acceptable use`
   * :ref:`login`

.. attention::

   | :bluelight:`Your account` is your **UCINetID**
   | :bluelight:`Your password` is **your regular password** that you use for your UCINetID
   | :red:`We do not handle or reset passwords for UCINetID`

.. _closing account:

Closing an account
==================

For as long as you have a valid UCInetID and you use your account it remains active.
When you separate from UCI your UCInetID will become inactive some time after
the separation.

The accounts are closed when:

1. An account has no activity for 1 year.
2. Once your UCInetID loses student status.
   Most student alumni keep student status for up to 1 year after the graduation.
3. When your UCInetID loses staff/researcher/PI affiliation.
